Sinusoid example in paper.md (#235)
CliMA/EnsembleKalmanProcesses.jl: paper.md

* The TOML-file interface defined in the \texttt{UQParameters} module allows non-intrusive use of \texttt{EnsembleKalmanProcesses.jl} through \text{TOML} files, which are widely used for configuration files and easily read in any programming language. Given the computer model to calibrate and prior distributions on the parameters, \texttt{EnsembleKalmanProcesses.jl} reads these distributions from a file and, after an iteration of the ensemble Kalman algorithm, writes each member of the updated ensemble to a parameter file. Each of these parameter files can be then read individually to initiate the ensemble of the computer model for the next iteration.

# Pedagogical example

> In this example, the complex computer code simulates a sinusoid curve $$f(A,v) = A\sin(\phi + t) + v, \ \forall t \in [0,2\pi],$$ with a random phase shift $\phi$. We assume that we cannot access $f$, but we can access some informative quantities through the map $$G(A,v) = [\max f(A,v) - \min f(A,v), \mathrm{mean} f(A,v)].$$

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the computer code simulates a sine wave $$f(A,v) = A\sin(t + \varphi) + v, \ \forall t \in [0,2\pi],$$ with a random phase shift $\varphi$. We assume that we cannot evaluate $f$ directly, but we can access some informative quantities through the map $$G(A,v) = [\max f(A,v) - \min f(A,v), \mathrm{mean} f(A,v)].$$
```
This is more standard notation in natural sciences & engineering.

Author: done

> In this example, the complex computer code simulates a sinusoid curve $$f(A,v) = A\sin(\phi + t) + v, \ \forall t \in [0,2\pi],$$ with a random phase shift $\phi$. We assume that we cannot access $f$, but we can access some informative quantities through the map $$G(A,v) = [\max f(A,v) - \min f(A,v), \mathrm{mean} f(A,v)].$$

Reviewer 2: Why do you specify that we cannot access _f_? If _G_ represents some climate observables, for instance, then _f_ would be the climate model, which we need to be able to run. Maybe I'm misunderstanding what you mean.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the complex computer code simulates a sinusoid curve $$f(A,v) = A\sin(\phi + t) + v, \ \forall t \in [0,2\pi],$$ with a random phase shift $\phi$. We assume that we cannot access $f$, but we can access some informative quantities through the observable map $$G(A,v) = [\max f(A,v) - \min f(A,v), \mathrm{mean} f(A,v)].$$
```

Author: I'll have another go at reintroducing f,G

> We are given one sample measurement of $G$, polluted by Gaussian noise $N(0,\Gamma)$, and call this $y$. Our task is to deduce the most likely amplitude $A$ and vertical shift $v$ of the curve that produced the $y$. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are given one sample measurement of $G$, polluted by Gaussian noise $N(0,\Gamma)$, and call this $y$. Our task is to deduce the most likely amplitude $A$ and offset $v$ of the curve that produced the $y$. 
```
?

> We are given one sample measurement of $G$, polluted by Gaussian noise $N(0,\Gamma)$, and call this $y$. Our task is to deduce the most likely amplitude $A$ and vertical shift $v$ of the curve that produced the $y$. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are given one sample measurement of $G$, polluted by Gaussian noise $\mathcal{N}(0,\Gamma)$, and call this $y$. Our task is to deduce the most likely amplitude $A$ and vertical shift $v$ of the curve that produced the $y$. 
```

Author: done

> We can encode prior information mathematically in the code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We encode our prior distributions over the parameters:
```

```julia
# A is positive, has likely value 2 with standard deviation 1
# v has likely value 0 with standard deviation 5
prior_A = constrained_gaussian("amplitude", 2, 1, 0, Inf)
prior_v = constrained_gaussian("vert_shift", 0, 5, -Inf, Inf)
prior = combine_distributions([prior_A, prior_v])
```

> To use a basic ensemble method we require one more parameter, the size of the ensemble, which we take to be `N_ensemble = 5`. We now begin solving the problem, by creating the initial ensemble from our prior, and selecting the `Inversion()` tool to perform ensemble Kalman inversion:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a basic ensemble method we need to specify one more hyperparameter, the size of the ensemble, which we take to be `N_ensemble = 5`. We now begin solving the problem, by creating the initial ensemble from our prior, and selecting the `Inversion()` tool to perform ensemble Kalman inversion:
```

Author: done

```julia
initial_ensemble = construct_initial_ensemble(prior, N_ensemble)
ensemble_kalman_inversion =
    EnsembleKalmanProcess(initial_ensemble, y, Γ, Inversion())
```
Then we iterate...
```julia
N_iterations = 5
for i in 1:N_iterations`
    # get the latest parameter ensemble
    params_i = get_phi_final(prior, ensemble_kalman_process)
    # run a simulation for each parameter in the ensemble
    G_ens = hcat([G(params_i[:, i]) for i in 1:N_ensemble]...)
    # perform the Kalman update, producing a new ensemble
    update_ensemble!(ensemble_kalman_process, G_ens)
end
```

> The solution of the ensemble Kalman inversion is the final ensemble of parameters. The results are depicted in \autoref{fig:sinusoid}, by evaluating f at these parameters. We see how these methods will calibrate model parameters without estimating the state, as the random shift is not learnt.

Reviewer: _f_ missing math notation

> The solution of the ensemble Kalman inversion is the final ensemble of parameters. The results are depicted in \autoref{fig:sinusoid}, by evaluating f at these parameters. We see how these methods will calibrate model parameters without estimating the state, as the random shift is not learnt.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The solution of the ensemble Kalman inversion is the final ensemble of parameters. The results are depicted in \autoref{fig:sinusoid}, by evaluating f at these parameters.

Note that here, the random phase shift does not affect the observables $G(A,v)$, and thus does not affect the results of the calibration. This is a demonstration of a more general principle, that observables can be chosen such that they are not impacted by such "nuisance parameters" which we are not interested in estimating. In the case of climate modelling, for instance, time-averaged observables can be used such that the state becomes unimportant [maybe cite one of the CES papers that discusses this here].
```

Reviewer 2: I don't know if this is too much to add, just wanted to make it clearer.

Author: I'll add something to this effect when we introduce G. I think the "in the case of climate modeling..." is too much so I've left this out.

> The solution of the ensemble Kalman inversion is the final ensemble of parameters. The results are depicted in \autoref{fig:sinusoid}, by evaluating $f$ at these parameters. Julia code for this example is provided in the documentation.

Author: I've added a sentence

> ![Sinusoids produced from initial and final ensembles, and the (un-noised) truth. \label{fig:sinusoid}](sinusoid_output.pdf){width=80%}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Sinusoids produced from initial and final ensembles, and the (denoised) truth. \label{fig:sinusoid}](sinusoid_output.pdf){width=80%}
```

Reviewer 2: "Denoised" suggests that noise was removed. Maybe "non-noisy"?

Reviewer: We are denoising it, if we consider the data to be the truth. I guess truth is a tricky word. Do we mean true dynamics = truth, or observation = truth? Typically in ML, people use the latter
